.TH Qutiebar 1 2018-11-09 "Qutiebar 0.3.4" "Qutiebar Manual"
.SH NAME
Qutiebar \- A customizable panel.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B
qutiebar
.OP --help
.OP --config\fP=\fIfile\fP
.OP --list-monitors
.OP --version
.SH DESCRIPTION
Qutiebar is a customizable panel made with Qt.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fP, \fB\-\-help\fP
Display help and exit.
.TP
\fB\-c\fP \fIfile\fP, \fB\-\-config\fP=\fIfile\fP
Specify a configuration file to load. If not specified, Qutiebar loads
.br
\fB$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/Qutiebar/config\fP or
.br
\fB$HOME/.config/Qutiebar/config\fP
.TP
\fB\-m\fP, \fB\-\-list-monitors\fP
Print available monitors and exit.
.TP
\fB\-v\fP, \fB\-\-version\fP
Display version number and exit.

.SH CONFIGURATION
Configuration uses INI format. \c
This section contains information about how to configure modules\\panels.

.SS Table of contents
 \fI1. Properties Overview\fP
    1.1 Data Types
    1.2 General Properties
    1.3 Progress Properties
    1.4 Data Display Properties
 \fI2. Panel\fP
 \fI3. Modules\fP
    3.1 Group
    3.2 Battery
    3.3 Backlight
    3.4 Volume
    3.5 Music Modules
        3.5.1 MPD
        3.5.2 Mpris
    3.6 AppIcon
    3.7 Clock
    3.8 Title
    3.9 Workspace
    3.10 Custom Modules
        3.10.1 Icon
        3.10.2 Text
        3.10.4 Data

.SH 1. Properties Overview
There is a number of properties that is shared by multiple modules. \c
They can be grouped into three types: general properties, progress properties \c
and data display properties.

.SS 1.1 Data Types
This is a brief description of data types that will be used to describe values.
.TP
\fBbool\fP
True or false.
.TP
\fBint\fP
A decimal number.
.TP
\fBfloat\fP
Floating point number.
.TP
\fBstring\fP
A string.
.TP
\fBcolor\fP
A named color, hex color with \fI#RRGGBB\fP\\\fI#AARRGGBB\fP format or
\fIrgba(rrr, ggg, bbb, a).\fP
.br
Example: \fIrgba(80, 180, 200, 0.8)\fP
.TP
\fBlist\fP
Values separated by a comma.
.br
Example: \fIvolume, backlight, battery\fP

.SS 1.2 General Properties
These can be applied to all modules.
.TP
\fBbackground\fP = \fIcolor\fP
Set background color.
.TP
\fBforeground\fP = \fIcolor\fP
Set text color.
.TP
\fBfont\fP = \fIstring\fP
Set a font to use.
.TP
\fBfonts\fP = \fIlist\fP
Use the first font in the list. The rest will be used as a fallback.
.TP
\fBshadow-color\fP = \fIcolor\fP
Set shadow color. Default: \fIblack\fP
.TP
\fBshadow-radius\fP = \fIint\fP
Set shadow radius. Default: \fI5\fP
.TP
\fBshadow-x\fP = \fIint\fP
Shadow X offset. Default: \fI0\fP
.TP
\fBshadow-y\fP = \fIint\fP
Shadow Y offset. Default: \fI0\fP
.TP
\fBunderline\fP = \fIint\fP
Set underline width.
.TP
\fBunderline-color\fP = \fIcolor\fP
Set underline color. Default: \fIred\fP
.TP
\fBoverline\fP = \fIint\fP
Set overline width.
.TP
\fBoverline-color\fP = \fIcolor\fP
Set overline color. Default: \fIred\fP
.TP
\fBvertical-align\fP = \fIint\fP
Set vertical alignment. It can be positive to displace the module upwards \c
or negative to displace it downwards.

.SS 1.3 Progress Properties
These apply to any progress element found in any module.
.TP
\fBprogress-color\fP = \fIcolor\fP
Set filled area color.
.TP
\fBprogress-empty-color\fP = \fIcolor\fP
Set empty area color.
.TP
\fBprogress-width\fP = \fIint\fP
Set filled area width.
.TP
\fBprogress-empty-width\fP = \fIint\fP
Set empty area width.
.TP
\fBprogress-font-size\fP = \fIint\fP
Set font size for text or icon.
.TP
\fBprogress-font-color\fP = \fIcolor\fP
Set color for text or icon.
.TP
\fBprogress-vertical-align\fP = \fIint\fP
Set vertical alignment of progress.
.TP
\fBcircle-icon\fP = \fIstring\fP
Set a font icon to be drawn inside circle progress.

.SS 1.4 Data Display Properties
These are properties for a group of modules that display a text, circle \c
progress or a line progress along with an optional icon that can be either \c
the name of module, a pixmap icon or a font icon.
.TP
\fBicon\fP = \fIstring\fP
Set icon type. Types:
.br
\fIname\fP -
Display name of module.
.br
\fIfonticon\fP -
Use a font glyph icon.
.br
\fIpixmap\fP -
Use a pixmap. It can be a path or a named icon from an icon theme.
.br
\fIprocess-fonticon\fP -
This is a special value for custom data module.
.br
\fIprocess-pixmap\fP -
This is a special value for custom data module.
.TP
\fBicon-width\fP = \fIint\fP
Set pixmap icon width.
.TP
\fBicon-height\fP = \fIint\fP
Set pixmap icon height.
.TP
\fBicon-size\fP = \fIint\fP
Set font icon size.
.TP
\fBicon-padding\fP = \fIint\fP
Set icon padding.
.TP
\fBicon-background\fP = \fIcolor\fP
Set icon color.
.TP
\fBicon-color\fP = \fIcolor\fP
Set font icon color.
.TP
\fBicons\fP = \fIlist\fP
A list of icons to display. Can be a list of paths, named icons or font icons \c
separated by a comma.
.TP
\fBdata\fP = \fIstring\fP
Set data display format. Default: \fInumber\fP. Values:
.br
\fInumber\fP -
Data is displayed as a number.
.br
\fIcircle\fP -
Data is displayed as a circular progress.
.br
\fIline\fP -
Data is displayed as a line progress.
.TP
\fBprogress-radius\fP = \fIint\fP
Set circle progress radius. Default: \fI20\fP
.TP
\fBprogress-length\fP = \fIint\fP
Set line progress length. Default: \fI100\fP

.SH 2. Panel
A single configuration file can have multiple panels and all of them will be \c
shown once the configuration file is loaded.
.SS Section
[\fBpanel\fP/\fIname\fP]
.SS Properties
.TP
\fBwidth\fP = \fIint\fP, \fIn%\fP
Width of panel. Default: \fI100%\fP
.TP
\fBheight\fP = \fIint\fP, \fIn%\fP
Height of panel. Default: \fI4%\fP
.TP
\fBpadding\fP = \fIint\fP
Space between modules and panel on left and right side.
.TP
\fBmargins\fP = \fIint\fP
Space between panel and screen.
.TP
\fBinner-margins\fP = \fIint\fP
Space between modules and panel on all sides.
.TP
\fBbottom\fP = \fIbool\fP
Set panel location. Default: \fIfalse\fP
.TP
\fBover-windows\fP = \fIbool\fP
Allow windows to be drawn over panel. Default: \fItrue\fP
.TP
\fBtexture\fP = \fIstring\fP
Set path to a pixmap to use as a background. Does not work if \fIbackground\fP \c
is set.
.TP
\fBmonitor\fP = \fIstring\fP
Specify monitor to use. Defaults to first monitor.
.br
Use \fI$ qutiebar -m\fP to list available monitors.
.TP
\fBspacing-left\fP = \fIint\fP
Space between modules on the left side.
.TP
\fBspacing-center\fP = \fIint\fP
Space between modules in center.
.TP
\fBspacing-right\fP = \fIint\fP
Space between modules on the right side.
.TP
\fBmodules-left\fP = \fIlist\fP
A list of module names to use.
.TP
\fBmodules-center\fP = \fIlist\fP
A list of module names to use.
.TP
\fBmodules-right\fP = \fIlist\fP
A list of module names to use.

.SH 3. Modules
.SS 3.1 Group
Group is a special type of modules used to “group” multiple modules together \c
so they would share the same properties (like same background, font, etc).
.SS Section
[\fBgroup\fP/\fIname\fP]
.SS Properties
.TP
\fBinner-margins\fP = \fIint\fP
Space between group and modules from all sides.
.TP
\fBmodules\fP = \fIlist\fP
A list of module names to use.
.TP
\fBspacing\fP = \fIint\fP
Space between modules.

.SS 3.2 Battery
Battery is a \fIdata display\fP module. Data is provided by \fI/sys/class/power_supply/\fP.
.SS Section
[\fBmodule/battery\fP]
.SS Properties
.TP
\fBbattery\fP = \fIstring\fP
Set battery to use. Default: \fIBAT0\fP
.TP
\fBupdate-rate\fP = \fIfloat\fP
Seconds it takes for module to update. Default: \fI1\fP

.SS 3.3 Backlight
Backlight is a \fIdata display\fP module. Data is provided by \fI/sys/class/backlight/\fP.
.SS Section
[\fBmodule/backlight\fP]
.SS Properties
.TP
\fBbacklight\fP = \fIstring\fP
Set card to use. Default: \fIintel_backlight\fP
.TP
\fBupdate-rate\fP = \fIfloat\fP
Seconds it takes for module to update. Default: \fI1\fP

.SS 3.4 Volume
Volume is \fIdata display\fP module. Currently, only ALSA is supported.
.SS Section
[\fBmodule/volume\fP]
.SS Properties
.TP
\fBmixer\fP = \fIstring\fP
Specify mixer. Default: \fIMaster\fP
.TP
\fBsoundcard\fP = \fIstring\fP
Specify sound card. Default: \fIdefault\fP
.TP
\fBupdate-rate\fP = \fIfloat\fP
Seconds it takes for module to update. Default: \fI1\fP

.SS 3.5 Music Modules
\fIMPD\fP and \fImpris\fP are supported. These modules provide music controls, \c
progress and track info (artist, title and album).
.SS Shared properties
.TP
\fBadd-buttons\fP = \fIlist\fP
Specify buttons to add as \fIbutton\fP:\fIicon\fP pairs. Available buttons:
.br
\fIplay\fP
.br
\fIpause\fP
.br
\fIstop\fP
.br
\fItoggle\fP -
This button can have to icons set for play and pause. Example:
\fBtoggle\fP:\fIplay_icon\fP:\fIpause_icon\fP
.br
\fInext\fP
.br
\fIprevious\fP
.TP
\fBbutton-type\fP = \fIstring\fP
Specify button type. Types:
.br
\fIfonticon\fP
.br
\fIpixmap\fP
.br
\fItext\fP
.TP
\fBbutton-color\fP = \fIcolor\fP
Set fonticon\\text color.
.TP
\fBbutton-background\fP = \fIcolor\fP
Set background color for buttons.
.TP
\fBbutton-width\fP = \fIint\fP
Set button width. Default: \fI20\fP
.TP
\fBbutton-height\fP = \fIint\fP
Set button height. Default: \fI20\fP
.TP
\fBbutton-size\fP = \fIint\fP
Set fonticon\\text size. Default: \fI10\fP
.TP
\fBtext-format\fP = \fIstring\fP
Specify how text is displayed. Available modifiers are \fI<artist>\fP, \fI<album>\fP \c
and \fI<title>\fP. These will be substituted with the corresponding data.
.TP
\fBtext-max-length\fP = \fIint\fP
Set maximum length f text.
.TP
\fBrich-text\fP = \fIbool\fP
Enable rich-text formatting for music information.
.TP
\fBscroll-speed\fP = \fIfloat\fP
Number of seconds it takes to update scrolling text.
.TP
\fBadd-progress\fP = \fIbool\fP
Add song progress.
.TP
\fBorder\fP = \fIlist\fP
A list that defines how items are ordered. Default: \fItext, buttons, progress\fP
.TP
\fBupdate-rate\fP = \fIfloat\fP
Seconds it takes for module to update. Default: \fI1\fP

.SS 3.5.1 MPD
.SS Section
.TP
[\fBmodule/mpd\fP]
.SS Properties
.TP
\fBhost\fP = \fIstring\fP
Set host. Default: \fIlocalhost\fP
.TP
\fBport\fP = \fIint\fP
Set port number. Default: \fI6600\fP
.TP
\fBpassword\fP = \fIstring\fP
Set password.
.TP
\fBtimeout\fP = \fIint\fP
Set connection timeout. Default: \fI1000\fP

.SS 3.5.2 Mpris
.SS Section
.TP
[\fBmodule/mpris\fP]
.SS Properties
.TP
\fBmusic-player\fP = \fIstring\fP
Set music player. To get music player name, use:
.br
\fI$ qdbus | grep mpris | sed -r "s/(\\w+\\.)+//"\fP

.SS 3.6 AppIcon
This module displays an icon of the currently focused window.
This works for windows that have \fI_NET_WM_ICON\fP atom set.
If that atom is not set, \fIdefault-icon\fP will be used instead.
.SS Section
.TP
[\fBmodule/appicon\fI]
.SS Properties
.TP
\fBwidth\fP = \fIint\fP
Set icon width. Default: \fI20\fP
.TP
\fBheight\fP = \fIint\fP
Set icon height. Default: \fI20\fP
.TP
\fBdefault-icon\fP = \fIstring\fP
Set an icon in case there are not icons set for the window.
It can be a path to pixmap or a named icon from an icon theme.

.SS 3.7 Clock
Used to display date and time. An alternative layout can be set and accessed \c
through clicking on the module.
.SS Formatting
.TP
\fIh\fP
Hour without a leading zero (12H if A\a is used)
.TP
\fIhh\fP
Hour with a leading zero (12H if A\a is used)
.TP
\fIH\fP
Hour without a leading zero (24H)
.TP
\fIHH\fP
Hour with a leading zero (24H)
.TP
\fIm\fP
Minute without a leading zero
.TP
\fImm\fP
Minute with a leading zero
.TP
\fIs\fP
Seconds without a leading zero
.TP
\fIss\fP
Seconds with a leading zero
.TP
\fIA\fP, \fIAP\fP
AM\\PM display
.TP
\fIa\fP, \fIap\fP
am\\pm display
.TP
\fId\fP
Day number without a leading zero
.TP
\fIdd\fP
Day number with a leading zero
.TP
\fIddd\fP
Abbreviation of day name
.TP
\fIdddd\fP
Full day name
.TP
\fIM\fP
Month number without a leading zero
.TP
\fIMM\fP
Month number with a leading zero
.TP
\fIMMM\fP
Abbreviation of month name
.TP
\fIMMMM\fP
Full month name
.TP
\fIyy\fP
Year as two digits
.TP
\fIyyyy\fP
Year as four digits
.SS Timezone formatting
.TP
\fIUTC+\\-dd:dd\fP
Example: \fIUTC+03:00\fP
.TP
\fIIANA timezone ID\fP
Example: \fIAsia/Baghdad\fP
.SS Section
.TP
[\fBmodule/clock\fP]
.SS Properties
.TP
\fBformat\fP = \fIstring\fP
Set date\\time display format. Default: \fIhh:mm a\fP
.TP
\fBalt-format\fP = \fIstring\fP
Set alternative display format.
.TP
\fBtime-zone\fP = \fIstring\fP
Set a timezone.
.TP
\fBupdate-rate\fP = \fIfloat\fP
Seconds it takes for module to update. Default: \fI1\fP

.SS 3.8 Title
Display title of the currently focused window.
.SS Section
[\fBmodule/title\fP]
.SS Properties
.TP
\fBclass\fP = \fIbool\fP
Display window class instead of title. Default: \fIfalse\fP
.TP
\fBmax-length\fP = \fIint\fP
Set maximum length of title.
.TP
\fBscroll-speed\fP = \fIfloat\fP
Number of seconds it takes to update scrolling text.

.SS 3.9 Workspace
.SS Section
[\fBmodue/workspace\fP]
.SS Properties
.TP
\fBwidth\fP = \fIint\fP
Set icon width. Default: \fI20\fP
.TP
\fBheight\fP = \fIint\fP
Set icon height. Default: \fI20\fP
.TP
\fBicon-type\fP = \fIstring\fP
Set icon type. Types:
.br
\fItext\fP -
Display text for current workspce.
.br
\fIfonticon\fP -
Use a font glyph icon.
.br
\fIpixmap\fP -
Use a pixmap. It can be a path or a named icon from an icon theme.
.TP
\fBicons\fP = \fIlist\fP
Set a list of \fIworkspace\fP:\fIicon\fP pairs. It can also be \fIactive\fP:\fIicon, \fP
\fIinactive\fP:\fIicon\fP where \fIactive\fP will represent the currently-focused workspace
and the rest of icons will be set as \fIinactive\fP.
.TP
\fBdefault-icon\fP = \fIstring\fP
Set an icon for the rest of workspaces.
.TP
\fBspacing\fP = \fIint\fP
Set space between each workspace. Default: \fI5\fP
.TP
\fBactive-color\fP = \fIcolor\fP
Set workspce color.
.TP
\fBactive-background\fP = \fIcolor\fP
Set workspce background.
.TP
\fBactive-underline-color\fP = \fIcolor\fP
Set underline color.
.TP
\fBactive-overline-color\fP = \fIcolor\fP
Set overline color.
.TP
\fBactive-line-width\fP = \fIint\fP
Set underline\\overline width.
.TP
\fBinactive-color\fP = \fIcolor\fP
Set inactive workspce color.
.TP
\fBinactive-background\fP = \fIcolor\fP
Set inactive workspce background.
.TP
\fBinactive-underline-color\fP = \fIcolor\fP
Set inactive underline color.
.TP
\fBinactive-overline-color\fP = \fIcolor\fP
Set inactive overline color.
.TP
\fBinactive-line-width\fP = \fIint\fP
Set underline\\overline width.

.SS 3.10 Custom Modules
These are modules that use the standard output of an external process to display
different information.
.SS Shared Properties
.TP
\fBexec\fP = \fIstring\fP
A path to executable\\script.
.TP
\fBexec-on-click\fP = \fIstring\fP
Process won't start unless the module is clicked.
.TP
\fBone-shot\fP = \fIbool\fP
The process will run only once. Useful if it is an infinite loop. Default \fItrue\fP
.TP
\fBupdate-rate\fP = \fIfloat\fP
Seconds it takes to run the process again. Default: \fI1\fP

.SS 3.10.1 Icon
This module uses the process output to set an icon. This means the process has \c
to output a path to pixmap or a named icon.
.SS Section
.TP
[\fBicon\fP/\fIname\fP]
.SS Properties
.TP
\fBwidth\fP = \fIint\fP
Set icon width. Default: \fI25\fP
.TP
\fBheight\fP = \fIint\fP
Set icon height. Default: \fI25\fP
.TP
\fBdefault-icon\fP = \fIstring\fP
Set a starting icon.

.SS 3.10.2 Text
This custom module takes the output of a process and displays it as a text.
.SS Section
.TP
[\fBtext\fP/\fIname\fP]
.SS Properties
.TP
\fBlabel\fP = \fIstring\fP
Set default text.
.TP
\fBmax-length\fP = \fIint\fP
Set text maximum length.
.TP
\fBscroll-speed\fP = \fIint\fP
Number of seconds it takes to update scrolling text. Default: \fI0.25\fP
.TP
\fBrich-text\fP = \fIbool\fP
Enable rich-text. Default: \fIfalse\fP

.SS 3.10.3 Data
This is a custom \fIdata display\fP module.
In order to set value, icon and unit, the process has to output data as:
.br
\fBi\fP:\fIicon\fP
.br
\fBm\fP:\fImaximum_value\fP
.br
\fBu\fP:\fIunit\fP
.br
\fBv\fP:\fIvalue\fP
.br
And they \fImust\fP end with a new line character \fP\\n\fP.
.SS Section
.TP
[\fBdata\fP/\fIname\fP]
.SS Properties
.TP
\fBname\fP = \fIstring\fP
Set module name. Default: \fIProcess\fP
.TP
\fBmax-value\fP = \fIint\fP
Set maximum value. Default: \fI100\fP
.TP
\fBunit\fP = \fIstring\fP
Set data unit. Default: \fI%\fP

.SH SEE ALSO
Visit <https://github.com/khalid151/Qutiebar> for configuration examples.
.SH AUTHOR
Khalid J.
